>> Are you really doing what
you want to do with your life?
Has it ever occurred to
you that you may have
a special calling or passion?
I am Marilyn McGuire and
this is the Wisdom Channel.
We are talking today with
Justine and Michael Toms,
co-authors of the
book, "True Work--
The Sacred Dimension
of Earning a Living."
Justine, welcome
to Wisdom Channel.
>> So good to be here, Marilyn.
>> Thank you.
Can you tell us
what is true work?
>> Well, true work is really
listening to your inner voice
and following your passion,
finding that which has meaning
for you, and manifesting
that in the world.
Whether you earn a living with
it or not is another question.
But we really need
to follow our passion
and find our gifts that we are
here to give, and to give them.
>> Well, from your point of
view, how has your life--
how have you followed
your passion,
or have you discovered your
passion, is the main thing.
And then when you
do, how do you know
it's really your passion
and really your service?
And how do you follow it?
>> Well, you know, for me-- and
it's going to be different from
Michael--
but for me, it came rather
slowly and unfolded.
But when Michael and
I first got together,
we started going to all
these seminars and workshops
about new thought and new
ideas of looking at the world.
And we got so excited about it.
We decided that we would like
to do something in the media.
Because none of
it at that time--
this was more than
25 years ago--
was appearing in the media about
meditation or holistic health
or alternative health,
nothing about the way babies
are born, like in
birthing rooms.
And everything was like in
like an emergency in a surgery
or something.
So all of these new ideas were
coming in and we got so excited
we decided to start
something called--
>> 25 years ago?
>> 25 years ago.
And it's called New Dimensions.
And it became a radio program,
which has now aired all over
the world-- all over the
United States and now all over
the world--
talking about these ideas.
So we just started by being
excited about the ideas
and just starting with
what we called baby steps
and just started to do it.
Just held some lectures.
And out of the lectures came
an invitation to do radio.
And then it just kept unfolding.
And for me, it's been
a lifelong learning.
It's been something
that has kept
me interested for 25 years.
And that's what true work is.
We didn't go into it
for earning a living.
We didn't even think about that
until it just kept working.
We would subsidize it
for many, many years.
And it was an all volunteer
organization for many years.
And then as we just kept
doing it with our enthusiasm,
with giving it
attention, it just
developed into something
that now, actually,
is full time for us.
>> I want to come back to
talking about New Dimensions
radio.
But you mentioned baby steps.
Can you explain?
>> Well, I think it's
really-- you know,
we have to start with
something that's close to us.
Because when we are
following our passion
or following that
inner voice, at first
it might be a small voice.
And we might say, oh, I
don't know if I can do it.
Our vision might be large.
How do you, how do you start it?
Well, you start it with
first, what is close to us.
You start with maybe talking
about it with your friends who
are very supportive.
And it's important to have
friends who are supportive,
who support you in
all of your fullness.
So to start off with
something like that.
And maybe like the way we
started New Dimensions,
we said, well, what
are we going to do.
We rented a space
in the local church.
And we invited some
people to speak.
And we put a little
ad in the newspaper.
And people came.
And we had a little shoe
box to collect some,
I think $3 at the door.
And we had a little
mailing list that they
want to know about more.
Now those are baby steps.
Now that mailing list of
those first maybe 25 people
that came to that
first lecture has
developed into 60,000
name mailing list
that's kept on computer now.
Well, if you had
thought about that, how
are we going to get 60,000
names on a computer at first,
it would just stop you.
But if you say, oh, we
just invite a few people
and we build from that,
and you build from that,
and those are baby steps.
Those little steps that we
talk about that are connected,
one on the other, the next step
will lead you to the next step.
>> That's fascinating.
And what comes to
mind for me is,
in following your
passion along the way,
do you have a goal
out there in mind,
or are you just being
led by your passion
to what will become a goal
that might surprise you
when it comes?
>> Well, that's
a great question,
because it's about the end.
There is a goal.
There's an overall vision.
But it's very, very
important to hold it loosely.
Because it allows for what
we call magic to happen.
And when we talk
about magic, it's
more like when you are really
energized by your vision,
then it allows the
unexpected to come in.
And if you hold your
vision so rigidly
that it's just going
to be this way,
then that unexpected
can't really come.
So you need to hold it loosely.
Let it flow.
But you have an
overall vision or goal.
But let it, let it have
room to move and to breathe
and to grow.
If we had imagined New
Dimensions as it is now,
in the very beginning, well,
it was beyond our imagination
that we would be
worldwide broadcasting.
We knew overall that
we wanted to talk
about life-enhancing,
empowering visions in the world
and bring people on who
were following this path.
But other than that, we
really held it loosely.
>> Well, today, after
25 years of this,
can you describe New Dimensions
radio to those people who may
not know about it?
>> Oh I'd love to.
Well, we're a weekly
program that's
on about 300 stations
across the United States.
And it airs on shortwave out of
Europe and Australia and Costa
Rica.
>> Amazing.
>> And every week we invite
someone on who is manifesting
some positive vision in
the world, something--
and it could be about anything
from health to psychology,
from spirituality to, from
I like to say from birthing
babies to going out into space.
And it's people who
are doing something
in their life that is coming up
with solutions for the future,
for the betterment of all
life, that enhances our ability
to be together in community,
that enhances our ability
to be with ourselves, to
accept and love ourselves,
to love each other more,
and to work in a better
environment all the way around.
>> And you had no idea that
this big thing was coming?
>> Well, we had no idea.
We just had this enthusiasm for
the ideas that we were hearing.
And we just kept following
it, following it.
>> That's the point, that
following is the baby steps
leading the way.
>> That's right.
>> Well, along the way,
was it always easy going?
>> Oh, Marilyn.
You know, when you
follow your vision--
I know that years ago we
did many, many interviews
with Joseph Campbell,
the famous mythologist.
And he would often talk
about following your bliss.
Well, people misinterpret
that thinking it's
all going to be blissful.
But he talks about
following your bliss
as going down, going
to where the shadow
side is, where the compost is.
I mean, it's
really, you're going
to learn a lot of
lessons on this path.
And it's not going
to always feel easy.
And it's not going to
always feel enjoyable.
But when you are doing
what has meaning for you,
you can always revert back
to, oh, why you're doing it.
And it's important to do
that, to take time out
to think, why am I doing this.
When the going gets tough, when
maybe the money isn't coming in
or maybe all the details
are not working out,
there are always
going to be details.
And that's where we have to
learn to be in the present
and to have a single focus.
>> So how is it having a
partnership with a husband,
a husband and wife
team working together?
>> Well, that's been wonderful.
I think because
Michael and I, we
have something that
we're working on that's
bigger than the two of us.
And you know, when we
got together, we always
thought that we
would have children,
although we both had children
from former relationships.
We thought that we
would have children.
And it just kind
of never happened.
And then through the years,
as we look back on it,
we realized that
really, about nine
months after we got together,
we started New Dimensions.
And here it is going on.
And now it's grown up.
And it seems to be
our creation together.
And it's been a
wonderful creation.
>> That is very, very touching.
Thank you, Justine.
I'm Marilyn McGuire and you are
watching the Wisdom Channel.
We have been talking to
Justine Toms about her book,
"True Work--
The Sacred Dimension of Earning
a Living," that she co-authored
with her husband, Michael Toms.
We'll be back with Michael.
Stay with us.
This is Marilyn McGuire.
And we are talking to
Michael and Justine Toms
today about their
book, "True Work--
The Sacred Dimension
of Earning a Living."
I'd like to introduce
Michael Toms.
>> Thank you, Marilyn.
Nice to be here.
>> It is nice to see you.
Tell me, Justine who said
her feelings about true work.
I'm sure you must
feel similar to it.
But since you've
both wrote the book,
give me, tell us
about your idea.
>> I think true work is an
expression of our following
our passion for
the last 25 years.
And so it reflects
some of the principles
that we've learned and have put
into practice over those years,
as well as our
passion is talking
to other people about
their passion in the work
that we do on the
radio and the dialogues
that we have on the radio.
So we've talked to
many, many people,
I mean, really
thousands of people,
over 3,000 people, many of whom
are following their passion.
And we've picked up a few
pointers along the way.
So the book is
expressive of not only
our own grounded
practical experience,
but the experience
of many others
about what following
your passion is all about
and what we call true work.
>> Following your passion, like
everyone has a mission in life,
perhaps, that they need to find.
>> Well, I think everyone,
particularly in these times
with this kind of bottom line
business as usual mentality,
that something is being
trampled in the process.
And that something essential
is that deep longing
that all of us have to give our
gifts, to make a contribution,
to be of service.
I think everyone has that.
And so it's really important
that we give those gifts.
Because each of
us is an original.
We're unique.
And we have gifts to offer.
And so as we give them, the
world becomes a better place.
So this is what I mean by
following your passion.
It's really important
to follow your passion,
whatever it may be.
Well, my passion is
clearly my work, the work
that I do on the radio.
But I have other
passions, as well.
My grandchildren are
a passion for me.
Birds are a passion for me.
I have bird feeders all
over around our house.
And every morning I get
up and go feed the birds.
And it's a great way
to start the day.
And so I have other passions.
Reading is a passion.
I love books.
I have 30 or 40 books
by my bed, you know?
And I'm reading all of them.
Because I love books.
And so that's a passion.
So many of us have,
we all have passions.
And it's important
to follow them,
to make them a
priority in our life.
You know, all too often we
get caught in the fast lane
and all we're
doing is busyness--
busy, busy, busy.
We never get in the off
ramp to enjoy our passions.
And it's only by doing that
that we can really feed our soul
and nurture our soul and
have real joy in our life.
>> This sounds very exciting.
There's also a bit of
a scary aspect to it.
>> It's exciting because it
comes from that deep place
in ourselves that is
exciting and is motivational.
It's energizing.
And so when we follow our
passion, it is energizing.
We get joy from it.
And it's not always easy.
It's an adventure.
I mean, it's like
jumping into the abyss.
We've got to take the leap.
And we go into the
unknown where we
have to let go of what we
know and what we are used to.
And really, that's the place
where creativity can really
happen because we have
to give up the known.
So chaos is really a
great place, Marilyn.
>> I never thought
about it that way.
I certainly have a
lot of it in my life.
>> So that's a blessing.
When we're in chaos,
it's a blessing.
>> I think it is.
Ans as Justine
spoke about, I know
that there are baby
steps along the way,
as well as a lot
of ups and downs.
And have there been any
special turning points for you
along your way?
>> Absolutely.
Absolutely.
One of the turning points in
my life was meeting Justine.
>> Oh.
>> That was a major
turning point for me.
Because I was in the advertising
business before I met Justine.
And I always knew that
my career in advertising
would be short term.
I loved it.
I enjoyed it.
I was a great copywriter.
I loved doing that.
And yet I knew all the time
this was not my life's work.
And I knew at some point
I would give it up.
When I met Justine,
within a couple months
I was ready to give it up.
It was time.
And so I left the
advertising business.
We bought a camper and
intended to travel around
the United States for a year.
We made it for 3 and 1/2 months.
And it was a great trip.
It was wonderful.
And we've been
together ever since.
But that clearly changed
my life at that point.
>> That's a wonderful thing.
This was a very positive thing.
Had there been other
things that have
been kind of depressing
to you or made
you feel that you weren't
on the right path.
>> There was a situation that
was extremely challenging
and stressful.
One of those was when we got
canceled by our main station
in San Francisco.
You know, in the '70s, we were
just in Northern California.
And the station that we were
on, we were on Saturday nights.
We had a four hour live program.
We were on for six years.
We were the most listened
to program on that station
and most popular program on
Public Radio in the Bay Area.
And they canceled it.
Just one day they
said we were gone.
You know, they were
changing their format.
And so we were left high
and dry without our station,
without our audience,
our support.
And it was almost
the death, you know,
it's like we were hearing
the death knell ringing.
The bell was ringing.
And that was a major
turning point there.
Either we went out of business
and we found something else
to do or we kept it going.
Well, somehow, just
through the graces
that were happening at the
time, we kept it together.
And we were able to--
it was right at the same
time, within a few months
the Public Broadcasting
satellite was being installed
to be available to public radio
stations around the country.
And so we basically were
able to put together
some programs for that.
And within a few months,
within maybe six months or so,
we were at the first conference,
first Public Radio conference
where the satellite
was actually-- the day
was the vernal equinox in 1980.
It was the spring equinox.
We were in Kansas City at
the Public Radio conference.
And our program was being beamed
on the satellite at that time.
And within a couple
of months of that,
we had 100 stations
that said they
wanted to carry New Dimensions.
So suddenly we had a national
audience and we were national.
And that made all
the difference.
And we went on.
And so that seeming
tragedy at the time,
which really put
us on a real downer
and looked like the destruction,
the potential destruction
of our work, turned
into a real blessing.
Because it forced us into a
situation where we had to say,
well, you know, we need
to do something else.
And that's what we did.
So we suddenly realized
that one station was not
going to make it for us.
And it didn't make it because
we were left without--
so we had to have
multiple stations.
So we went national
and it worked.
>> So you just kept your faith.
You kept persevering.
And you did not give up.
It was this idea--
>> Well, think about it.
A lot of the ideas and topics
and people we talked to
are people on the margins.
They're on the cutting edge.
They're not in the mainstream.
And we built that
network during the '80s,
during the Reagan era,
which was a very kind
of revisionist era going
back to conservative ideas.
And a lot of the ideas
were not in that milieu.
But we built a network
during that time.
Now we have over 300 stations
that carry our program
on a regular basis.
So we were basically
going up river,
against the tide at the time.
But still, you know, deep
underneath the surface
there's been a real
hunger, I think,
in our society in
America for the spiritual
and for a deeper message, one
that is hopeful and grounded.
And it's that message
that we try and deliver
on the airwaves.
>> I heard Jean Houston say,
mention that we're telling
stories for people who are
looking for the new story.
We're providing a curriculum.
And it seems to me
that you have certainly
been providing a curriculum
for the many, many people that
are looking for a new story
about life and how it can be.
>> And that's why it's so
exciting to have New Dimensions
radio hookup with the Wisdom
Network and the Wisdom Channel,
Wisdom Radio because you know,
Bill Turner's idea of a 24-hour
life-affirming television
channel and radio network is
a great idea.
>> And a new dimension.
>> And a new dimension
for New Dimensions.
And we're really happy
to be part of it.
And it's really an idea
whose time has come.
Because clearly when, you know--
you and I both travel a lot.
When I go into a city and
I turn on the television,
it's always amazing to me, you
know, you go in these cities
they have 60 or 70 choices, 60
or 70 choices on the television
and there's nothing to watch.
There's nothing worth seeing.
So the Wisdom Channel, I
think, is a real blessing
and a real important step
in this vast wasteland
of commercial television.
>> I totally agree with you.
Didn't you have a
big career change
at some point along the way?
It seems I read.
>> Well, I worked for
a major corporation,
multinational corporation
for eight years in marketing
and communication.
And yeah, I was on
the career track.
And fortunately for me-- and
I didn't know it at the time,
really--
that I found my ladder
against the wrong wall
and moved the ladder.
It's a Joe Campbell
metaphor, actually.
For me, it happened because
I was a little dense.
I had to be pushed off
the edge of the cliff.
And the way I got
pushed off was I
was about to be married, not
to Justine, my present wife,
but to someone else.
And within a few days of being
married she called it off.
And invitations--
>> Justine?
>> She was someone
else, not Justine.
And so it really, my
whole world that I had
created at that point crashed.
And it was a real downer.
I mean, I went into a
deep depression, suicidal.
And it was very, very black
and bleak at the time.
And somehow, through grace and
blessings, I came out of that
and quit my job, my career
job and didn't really know
what I was going to do.
But then what I
did was I basically
created a personal
sabbatical for myself,
although I didn't really know
I was doing it at the time.
I just felt compelled to do it.
And so it was a deeply--
the time for me was a deeply
spiritual and transformational
time.
And I just did, I walked in the
park and did a lot of reading.
I learned how to
meditate and just
had some amazing things
happen during that time.
And that led me,
amazingly enough,
into the advertising business.
My spiritual opening
led me to advertising.
>> I think a lot of the great
masters have taken their time
in the wilderness.
>> Oh, it's really important
to take sabbaticals,
whether they be a year,
whether they be a half a day
or an hour.
It's important to
take sabbaticals
from what we are doing.
I call them mini
spiritual retreats.
And we should do that
as much as possible.
>> And this is
part of true work--
>> Part of true work.
Exactly.
>> Knowing that that's
important to do.
>> It's the only time we can
really listen to our inner
voice.
>> I think so many people that
are seeking their true work
or are not in touch with their
true work could benefit from
knowing that.
>> Absolutely.
>> That it's
important to do that.
I know the Oriental
people sometimes will--
>> Get out of the fast
lane to the off ramp.
>> And the European people
will frequently do this.
>> Yes.
>> Well, working as a team,
as a husband and wife team,
how has this been for you?
>> It's been amazingly inspiring
and energizing and great.
I've loved it.
>> Well, thank you
very much, Michael Tom.
>> Well, thank you.
>> This is Marilyn McGuire.
And you are watching
the Wisdom Channel.
We've been talking to
Justine and Michael
Toms, authors of "True Work--
The Sacred Dimension
of Earning a Living."